# Uncovering the Hidden Half of Plants (2022)
This project was done as part of the 2022 WUSTL CSE REU under the guidance of Professor Tao Ju and in collaboration with the Danforth Science Center. By building off of the work of [Jade Kandel](https://github.com/jadekandel/Uncovering-the-Hidden-Half-of-Plants), a previous WUSTL CSE REU student, the work done this summer was able to increase the fluidity and accuracy of root imaging software, thereby decreasing the amount of time required to develop an adequate model.

Roots are integral to the structure and wellbeing of plants, but current technologies have many limitations that make it hard to actually monitor root growth and health fo the roots as time passes. Currently, the best way to assess the formation of the root systems is to use Computed Tomography (CT) scans to image an entire plant system at once, and then label all of the different branches. A GUI that intuitively displays 2D slices of a 3D volume was created by Jade Kandel in order to streamline the process of tracking and labeling branches. This program was able to bring the total amount of time required to image a certain set of data from 8 weeks to around 40 hours. With the changes that were made this past summer, the time to image that set of dat is now about 8 hours. 

In order to run the program, use python3. New feature additions include a continuous annotation mode in which a new index can be added by using [shift + left MB] to add a new point, and [option + left MB] to remove the point just placed down. This feature alone cut down on most of the time and complication of using the software. 

A video guide of how to use the updated software and features is now available [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2-c1k70magw).
